---
title: "BMW 2022: At First Light"
permalink: /booknmusic/2022/
description: ""
---

## BMW 2022: At First Light

The school’s much-celebrated annual Book and Music Week (BMW) was proud to be back in full force this year! After two long years of conducting the festival on virtual platforms, Arts and Culture was excited to be able to bring BMW back into our school’s spaces, along with the charged enthusiasm of our students as a live audience. This year, the theme for BMW was “At First Light”. Using this as a springboard, students had to explore the creative possibilities of light as a motif, idea, or element within their different performances and presentations. As one of the most highly anticipated events of the year, students were especially thrilled by the idea of having a night programme on the final day, where they would get to viscerally experience and enjoy the illumination of the school by their torchlights and diversity of light installations. 

Across the three days of festivities, each class took ownership over the event through presenting different arts-based presentations and performances, based on different creative prompts assigned. Certain activities ranged across the entire school, such as the busking event, where each level presented a performance of their choice based on an inspirational story or character. Furthermore, each class also had an opportunity to integrate an “#OotD” (#Outfit of the Day) aspect in their presentations as well, where many also explored creative ways to use different recycled materials in the creation of their dazzling costumes. Beyond the school-wide performances, there were also activities that were specifically designed for each level, with each level exploring a different sub-theme. For example, the Secondary 1 students performed adaptations of literary classics around the theme of “Light as Reflection” on stage, complete with dazzling outfits and a backdrop of photography, while the Secondary 3 students innovatively transformed their classrooms into immersive settings based on a variety of prompts surrounding “Light as Space”.

Interspersed between these activities were various performances by our Performing Arts groups. It was heartening to see the school give a rousing encouragement for our Choir, Chinese Drama, Chinese Orchestra, Concert Band, Dramatic Arts Society, and Modern Dance. Furthermore, we were also delighted to have external performing arts groups bring to us distinct and unique programmes. The musical quartet, RagaJazz, celebrated and shed light on the fusion of jazz and Indian classical music, while the dance troupe PheNoumenon dazzled us with a contemporary dance piece which poignantly explored our relationship with the natural environment. 

Our scintillating event eventually came to a close with the unique opportunity to culminate our celebrations in an evening programme. As dusk encroached and twilight set in, the school was set aglow with a diversity of light installations across different spaces of the school. Students were exhilarated as they freely roamed the school grounds to interact with and enjoy the light art, where every installation was a labour of love that was painstakingly put up by each class. As a feature of finality, Mrs Thong led the school in a rousing anthem of “This Little Light of Mine”, as the students rallied together in chorus, and waved their BMW torchlights in tandem with the song. 

We are truly grateful for the opportunity to resume BMW with live performances this year, and are continuously impressed by the endless creativity and energy of the students. This year’s return to normalcy serves as a shining testament to what our students are capable of achieving, when given the chance. With the close of this year’s festival, we look forward to next year’s iteration of spirited innovation!

<iframe width="800" height="450" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Pkw7NxiHm0w" title="2022 BMW Highlights" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>